I think...

I think writing and typing may soon come to an end.

By writing, I mean the physical act of writing characters on paper.

And by coming to an end, I mean for professional use.

I think those still stick around as a vestige,

something vintage to be memorialized.

Writing, especially.

I mean, writing is reaching that state even now, perhaps.

Perhaps.

Or maybe it will stick around for those people who still prefer to... I mean, I think we'll still have whiteboards and stuff. I mean, specifically, maybe typing them. Maybe only typing will be retired.

Yeah.

writing has kind of already reached the retirement state.

Typing is the default medium, so I think typing will be retired

and be replaced by voice input.

Okay.

is the fact that you can speak much faster than you can type, for sure.

And perhaps the only real advantage to typing is that you can catch and correct your mistakes on the go.

Which is not even so much an advantage because you're filtering yourself.

If you're filtering yourself as you're writing, typing out a word, it's limiting to yourself.

That's why people have those, you know, you start writing and you never stop things, right?

That's to make it so that you can't filter yourself.

It's trying to disable the filters in your brain.

so with writing you have all these hacks that you know erase all of your stuff as soon as you

stop writing but when you're speaking this just comes naturally you don't have to there's not

there's not even the slightest tendency to finish the thought that you were doing before you switch

to another one we mean we just do this all the time in conversation and

you don't even have to finish the word that you were saying,

unlike in typing where it kind of feels like you have to finish the word.

Otherwise, it just looks too messy somehow.

Because when we type, we're also reading.

We're reading what we wrote.

And the things that we are used to reading are polished things.

And so maybe we automatically try to make...

what we write resemble what we read, even though what we read is not what was directly outputted.

Anyway, the point is it would be much easier to write as if you were talking and then edit it later,

for reading comfort and condense the ideas and whatnot.

But it's harder to do with writing and it's also slower,

even if you could make yourself do it, it's still slower than speaking.

So,

And as dictation technologies get better and better, I foresee writing no longer being

necessary.

I mean, we even have thought to text on the horizon now.

So writing will definitely not be necessary.

I mean, even the little...

I mean, I think writing will be around for as long as...

Typing will be around for as long as we...

Still need to enter text in public settings or whatever.

Okay, places where we need to be quiet.

Okay.

But once that text becomes reality, then typing will truly be the beginning of the end for

typing.

And this begs the question: will reading die, or will listening take over?

And I'm having a hard time deciding whether this will be the same as the relationship between

typing and speaking, or if it will be inverted.

Oh, also on the typing versus speaking aspect, I think there may be some physiological truth

to...

I mean, humans were evolved to communicate with voice, not with their hands so much, with

their fingertips.

So maybe that's another argument for why your thoughts will feel better when you're

speaking rather than typing.

But yeah, as for reading versus listening, you could make the same argument that maybe

things flow easier when you're listening.

They certainly go to different regions of the brain.

I'm certain of this.

But reading can be a lot faster than speaking.

I mean, listening...

Yet listening is also sometimes a thing that you can do without, and free up your vision

for other things, like when you're driving, for instance.

And with the advance of text-to-speech technology, I'm sure soon we can eliminate the need to

for reading. You could choose to listen, but it will be slower than reading, but

it will be more convenient. You can be walking, you don't have to take your

phone out, you don't have to deal with interfaces, something can just

read to you and you can respond. Someone can send you a message and you would just hear their voice

or something, or maybe a simplified version of their voice. I don't know.

And then you could just respond with your voice.

I don't know.

Oh, this is unrelated to the Substack post, but maybe for my future soon-to-be-written sci-fi piece, where there's an omniscient AI god...

I can have, I can implement the system of calling and texting, not calling, but this voice,

this voice dominated system.

I mean, we'll see.